About our energy facility we take care 24 hours a day to ensure quality, continuous and reliable supply. The heating system in city Spišska Nova Ves in past was based on combination the districts heating system fuelling by the gas and central steam/ hot water heating system by the coal.  In 90s the central steam/ hot water system  with  network interface  steam / hot water units in residential district Tarèa was replaced by  district cogeneration system producing electricity and heat for heating district system. Currently Energy company maintenance 25 heating boiler rooms. Each heating boiler room has up to 3 gas boilers. We usually substituted one gas boiler during modernization with lower installation heat power (because of reduction of consumption heat after flat block reconstructions) and we install in boiler room efficiency economizer saving energy form flue gas going to chimney. Remaining old boilers are as backup or if needed during peak of higher demand of heat. The boilers are relatively old now: 20-30 years old. So far only one was replace by a new low condensation boiler. During the last years we also replace old heating hydronic pipeline in some district heating system due to big heating loses.
The company delivers heat and hot water to 9500 flats and public buildings in city Spišská Nová Ves. Our objectives are comfort, safety and competitive price. If a public building have bad heating infrastructure (e.g. inefficient old boiler) we invite them to plug into our system. The main advantage of such a solution is that an administrator of public building does not need to care about servicing and controlling the boiler any more. Moreover, it is more stable solution. In case of the “private” heating system with its own boiler the breakdown of boiler can cause a long lasting interruption in heating. We are well prepared for such a situation and we have surplus of heat so almost any breakdown is fixed very fast without inconveniences to households. 
Our company uses 11 mln m3 of gas. We can negotiate the prices of gas but the differences in prices of gas we can get are rather neglectable.
Our company is fully owned by the city and our main goal is to maintain heat prices at the lowest possible level. Now we sell 1GJ for 23€. The price of heat is calculated out of two main components: variable and fixed price. The variable price accounts for 70% of overall price of heat and it depends mainly on prices of entry commodities like gas, water and electricity using in our  district heating supply systems. When the price of gas, electricity or water is increasing the change is automatically incorporated into variable price of produced heat. The fixed price is composed of maintenance costs, wages, overheads, depreciation/ rent and income. Slovak Energy Agency regularly controls the efficiency of our system and estimates the energy loss. The cost of energy including allowed heat loss is incorporated into fixed component of price. According to new regulation the fixed costs can be changed once in 5 years. The approving agency is called URSO - Regulatory Office for Network Industries. 
Because of unpredictable price changes and changing consumption of heat resulting from weather conditions our clients first get the prognoses which they pay monthly and only at the end of the year we communicate them the factual consumption of heat. Depending on the differences between prognoses and factual consumption they pay us extra money or we return them the excess. 
 URSO
Heat prices for 2010 were determined under the Decree No. 1/2009, according to which price regulation is imposed on production, distribution and supply of heat and price regulation is performed by defining the method of calculation of the maximum heat price. The method and procedure applied for heat price regulation in 2010 were determined by the Decree No. 6/2008 in the wording of the Decree dated October, 2008No. 7/2008 and the Decree dated June 10, 2009 No. 6/2009 Amendments of the Decree No. 6/2008 did not substantially changed the method of heat price regulation in 2010. A variable component of the heat price was determined in€/kWh based on the ordered volume of heat, whereas it was separately determined for households and separately for other off-household consumers. Such procedure resulted from the regulation of price of gas used for household heat production and from the implementation of the Act No. 609/2007 Coll. on Consumer Tax from Electricity, Coal and Natural Gas and on Amendment and Supplement of the Act No. 98/2004 Coll. on Consumer Tax from Mineral Oil in the wording of latter provisions (hereinafter only ”the Act on Consumer Tax“). A fixed component of the heat price was determined on regulatory input and was expressed in €/kW of regulatory input. The growth of fixed costs was restricted, with the exception of making investments into rationalisation of heat production and distribution, ecologization and scheduled overhaults. An increase in fixed costs was also allowed when eliminating breakdowns and accidents caused by natural disasters and events caused by third persons that might impose the threat on health of persons or cause large damage. In those events and in the case of construction of a heat generating plant or its part, planning to utilise renewable energy sources, it was allowed to partially increase fixed costs under precisely specified circumstances as defined in the Decree No. 6/2008. The joint heat price for a supplier was determined for a town or its specific part. It is still possible to include a higher profit in the heat price for those suppliers that ensure heat production with at least a 20%share of renewable energy sources, whereas the heat price does not exceed the limit prices of variable and fixed components of the heat price determined in the Decree No. 6/2008.Also, there is still a possibility to settle eligible costs in the set heat prices following the termination of the regulatory period, which brought the possibility of cumulating saved costs in the first two years and use them in the third year of the regulatory period s. By amendment of the Decree No. 6/2008 the Office intended to maintain incentives to a higher utilisation of renewable energy sources at the existing prices of natural gas as a competitive fuel and for this reason it updated the specific conditions for setting prices, when using renewable energy sources  The average heat price is largely affected by a price of natural gas, which is the most frequently used fuel for heat production. Up to66%of supplies is covered with heat produced from natural gas natural gas. A variable component of the heat price therefore adequately follows a price of natural gas. In case of prices of heat supplied to households it reflects the price determined by the Office for a respective year and in case of heat for other consumers it depends on the world prices of crude oil and annex change rate of€/USD. As a result of decline in a regulated price of natural gas in2010 the average variable component of the heat price for households went down by 4.4%, when compared to the year2009. A regulated price of natural gas for heat production in 2011 increased by 6%. This fact as well as cancellation of exemption of gas and coal used for heat production from the consumer tax starting from January 1, 2011resulted in an increase in the variable component of the heat price for households in 2011 amounting to 10% on average. The heat price in a variable component for other off-household consumers decreased by 7.1 % in 2010, compared to 2009, and increased by 1.6% in 2011. Gas and coal used for heat production in this category of consumers was charged with the consumer tax already in the previous years, and therefore an increase in the heat price is lower than in households A comparison of heat prices depending on the size of supply points out to lower heat prices of large-scale heat consumers and on the contrary, higher prices of small-scale consumers. Also the size of a fixed component of the heat price is detrimental to smaller suppliers with heat supply up to 2 MWh. 
Energy efficiency strategy for investments
We follow the trends in thermal management modernize our facilities in accordance with current knowledge. Our facilities are energy efficient and environmentally friendly compared to those in a large number of local resources.  Our customer is lightened by spending large cost to heat the building, operating, servicing and maintenance and other obligations arising from legislation and environmental protection and safety of these devices 
Our main objective is to gain very efficient system so we invest in insulation of new heating pipes, new condensation boilers, new economizer of combustion, and new energy control system. 
The consumption of heat has decreased lately due to the renovation of buildings and change in behaviour of people but now it is rather consistent. That is why we would like to invest in gas low temperature boilers with lower power and higher efficiency. 
We were analysing the investment in RES and we do not see too many possibilities. For example, payback period of biomass boilers are too long (15 years) besides they cause environmental and logistic difficulties in district urban area Mier (also the quality of biomass can vary with the condition of storage etc.; it is “dirty” energy in comparison to gas) and we do not perceive it as the stable solution. In our opinion heating pumps are not effective solution for district heating system – the renovation is needed and it is costly. Besides the price of heat is then depended on cost of electricity – high price of electricity makes the heat very expensive. It is good solution for small households. 
We see some potential in solar collectors (mostly for hot water)– but this solution needs farther investigation – provide feasibility study. 
The CO2 emission is not a problem for us. We examine the emission every year but we do not pay for it as it is very low. The CO2 emission is significant issue for heating systems that use coal.
We are not considering the increase of the gas prices as a serious threat (if the price of gas will be higher than the prices of all other energy sources will be higher). More realistic competition will be if the cogeneration c power plant will be constructed in the area, which will deliver also the heat as the secondary output produced during the production of electricity.
Extensive experience with design and installation of instrumentation and control systems allow us to provide sophisticated management, monitoring and archiving of data, including the transfer of information to the dispatching office

